# Artifical-Neural-Network-and-Basic-Genetic-Algorithms
A versatile and modular artificial neural network built from scratch. In this project, we demonstrate its capabilities by teaching it to play a simple game, Snake. Snake is also modular and coded from scratch in the Pyglet library, keeping in mind that none of the elements in this project should be dependant and can function as independent units. The Neural Network itself is a simple Feedforward/Backpropagate 
model with a few activation functions to choose from. More algorithms may be added in the future. The genetic algorithm consists of a random single point selection and truncation and the ensuing crossover is single point. The genetic algortihm is what is being mainly used to teach the snake game, but the network can function independently and process test data using backpropagate.

For the snake game, the approach is simple. A fixed population and a number of generations are predefined. The selection and crossover occurs once every snake in a generation has played once. Mutation is a random chance currently set at 5%. The process continues for the maximum specified number of generations. A fitness function determines each snakes performance and the best performing snakes are saved and bred to repopulate the next generation once the bad performers have been disposed of. All the values can be modified easily. Multiprocessing has also been implemented to reduce the execution time as much as is feasible. The code will open as many threads as the host CPU allows. Switching has been added which allows for multiprocessing to be turned off by changing a single boolean value. 
Once the set number of generations finish playing out, a new instance of the snake game will open and play at normal and viewable speeds so that we can see how the snake has evolved. 
